Worksheet - 3 Machine Learning

1. The value of correlation coefficient will always be:
Ans : C) between -1 and 1

2. Which of the following cannot be used for dimensionality reduction?
Ans : D) Ridge Regularisation

3. Which of the following is not a kernel in Support Vector Machines?
Ans : A) linear

4. Amongst the following, which one is least suitable for a dataset having non-linear decision boundaries?
Ans : D) Support Vector Classifier

5. In a Linear Regression problem, ‘X’ is independent variable and ‘Y’ is dependent variable, where ‘X’ represents weight in pounds. If you convert the unit of ‘X’ to kilograms, then new coefficient of ‘X’ will be?
(1 kilogram = 2.205 pounds)
Ans : C) old coefficient of ‘X’ ÷ 2.205

6. As we increase the number of estimators in ADABOOST Classifier, what happens to the accuracy of the model?
Ans : B) increases

7. Which of the following is not an advantage of using random forest instead of decision trees?
Ans : C) Random Forests are easy to interpret

8. Which of the following are correct about Principal Components?
Ans : A) Principal Components are calculated using supervised learning techniques,
         C) Principal Components are linear combinations of Linear Variables.

9. Which of the following are applications of clustering?
Ans : 
          A) Identifying developed, developing and under-developed countries on the basis of factors like GDP, poverty index, employment rate, population and living index
         B) Identifying loan defaulters in a bank on the basis of previous years’ data of loan accounts.
         C) Identifying spam or ham emails
         D) Identifying different segments of disease based on BMI, blood pressure, cholesterol, blood sugar levels.

10. Which of the following is(are) hyper parameters of a decision tree?
Ans : A) max_depth,
         B) max_features
         D) min_samples_leaf

11. What are outliers? Explain the Inter Quartile Range(IQR) method for outlier detection.
Ans: Outliers are data points or values, which are distant from Similar points. They are kind of Extreme values which are way away/outside from other observations.
IQR = Q3 – Q1
Suspected Outlier are Value > Q3+1.5*IQR
Suspected Outlier are Value < Q1-1.5*IQR
Where
Q1 is -> represent a quarter of the way through the list of all data
Q3 is -> represents three-quarters of the way through the list of all data

12. What is the primary difference between bagging and boosting algorithms?
Ans: Bagging Goal is to achieve Minimum Variance, While Boosting goal is to achieve Increase Accuracy

13. What is adjusted R2 in logistic regression. How is it calculated?
Ans: It measures the proportion of variation explained by only those independent variables that really help in explaining the dependent variable.

Adjusted R Square= (1-SS(res)/df(e))/(SS(tot)/df(t))
SS(res) -> squares of residuals
SS(tot) -> total sum of squares
dft is the degrees of freedom n– 1 of the estimate of the population variance of the dependent variable,
dfe is the degrees of freedom n – p – 1 of the estimate of the underlying population error variance.

14. What is the difference between standardisation and normalisation?
Ans: Normalization scale a variable to have a values between 0 and 1
while standardization transforms data to have a mean of zero and a standard deviation of 1.

15 What is cross-validation? Describe one advantage and one disadvantage of using cross-validation?
Ans: Cross validation is technique to assess, how the statistical analysis generalizes to an independent dataset.
Cross-validation is a technique in which we train our model using the subset of the data-set and then evaluate using the complementary subset of the data-set.

Advantage: More accurate estimate of out-of-sample accuracy (Reduces Overfitting), Hyperparameter Tuning
Disadvantage: Increases Training Time, Needs Expensive Computation
