Worksheet 1 - SQL

1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?      
Ans : A) Create , D) ALTER
   
2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?  		
Ans : A) Update , B) Delete

3. Full form of SQL is:
Ans : B) Structure Query Language

4. Full form of DDL is:
Ans : B) Data Definition Language

5. DML is:
Ans : A) Data Manipulation Language

6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type?
Ans : C) Table A( B int, C float, D float)

7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
Ans : B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float

8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
Ans : B) Alter Table A Drop Column D

9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of table A created in above questions?
Ans : B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int

10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following statements we can do it?
Ans : C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B

11. What is data-warehouse?
Ans : Data warehouse is a storage place to store the data's basically databases and tables.
          Data Warehouse is separate from DBMS, it stores huge amount of data, which is typically collected from multiple heterogeneous source like files, DBMS, etc.

12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?
Ans : Online transaction processing (OLTP) provides transaction-oriented applications in a 3-tier architecture.
         Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) consists of a type of software tools that are used for data analysis for business decisions.

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?
Ans : Characteristics of Data Warehouse:
           1. Subject-oriented
           2. Integrated
           3. Time-Variant
           4. Non-Volatile

14. What is Star-Schema??
Ans : A star schema is the elementary form of a dimensional model, in which data are organized into facts and dimensions.

15. What do you mean by SETL?
Ans : Short for Set Theory as a Language (or Set Language), SETL is a high-level programming language that's based on the mathematical theory of sets.
          It was developed in the early 1970's by mathematician Professor J. Schwartz.
          SETL is an interpreted language with a syntax that is resembles C and in many cases similar to Perl.
          In SETL every statement is terminated by a semicolon.
         Variable names are case-insensitive and are automatically determined by their last assignment.
